Test recorder (BETA) draft (#115)
mulesoft/docs-munit: modules/ROOT/pages/test-recorder-examples.adoc

> = Recording a Test From an Exchange Example

Author: @kip-mulesoft and @pentreathm 

This is a first draft of an example usage of the Test Recorder.

> = Recording a Test From an Exchange Example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Recording a Test from an Exchange Example
```

ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:page-partial:

> The following example shows you how to import to Studio an existing project from Exchange, and then record the flow processing to create a unit test for the flows.

Reviewer: Just because it is the first mention in a Level-1 topic....
```suggestion
The following example shows you how to import to Anypoint Studio an existing project from Anypoint Exchange and then record the flow processing to create a unit test for the flows.
```

> The following example shows you how to import into Studio an existing project from Exchange, and then record the processing of a flow to create a unit test for the flows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows you how to import to Studio an existing project from Exchange, and then record the flow processing to create a unit test for the flows.
```

== Prerequesite

> * You have your Anypoint Platform credentials configured in Studio. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Your Anypoint Platform credentials are configured in Studio. +
```

See xref:studio::set-credentials-in-studio-to.adoc[Configuring Anypoint Platform Credentials] for more information.

== Testing the Login Form Using the HTTP Connector Example

> . Click the *Open Exchange* icon image:exchange-icon.png[3%,3%].

Reviewer: Question about icons: are they accompanied by the actual UI LABELS like *Open Exchange*, or is that just what we call an icon that looks like this image?
If the icon name is not an actual UI label, consider not bolding it.

Author: Good point. These are just icons, there's no label on the UI unless the user mouse over them.

> . Select *Provided by MuleSoft* in the pop-up Exchange window, filter per *Examples* and look for the *Login Form Using the HTTP Connector*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select *Provided by MuleSoft* in the pop-up Exchange window, filter per *Examples*, and look for the *Login Form Using the HTTP Connector*.
```
Will your audience understand what "filter per *Examples*" means? Does *Examples* offer clear filtering options?
Also, consider that this might be more clear if divided into two or three steps instead of one.

Author: Yes, filter assets in Exchange is pretty straight forward. I could add a screenshot to make this clearer.

> . Click the *Open* button. +

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click *Open*. +
```

Studio imports the example as a new working project.

> ** If prompted, select to *Perform Update*  in the *Update your Workspace* option.

Reviewer: This should be a step, no?
Also, it has an extra space.
```suggestion
. If prompted, select *Perform Update* in *Update your Workspace*.
```

. Select the *Manage Mule Projects APIs* icon image:manage-project-api-icon.png[2%,2%].

> . Select *Modules* and update both *MUnit* and *Munit Tools*.

Reviewer: colon to point to image following
```suggestion
. Select *Modules* and update both *MUnit* and *Munit Tools*:
```

+
image::update-munit.png[]
. Select *Apply and Close*.

> === Testing a Successful Login

Reviewer: Question about "testing" successful and unsuccessful logins: do we really mean "verifying" success or "troubleshooting" lack of success? Not sure why you would text a successful connection....

//tag::this-test[]

> . In your project, right-click the `DoLoginFlow`, and select > *Munit* > *Record new test for this flow (BETA)*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In your project, right-click `DoLoginFlow` and select *Munit* > *Record new test for this flow (BETA)*:
```

+
image::login-flow-test-recorder-example.png[]
+
The test recorder starts your project and starts recording the event going through that flow.

> . Open a browser and navigate to `+http://0.0.0.0:8081/login+`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Open a browser and navigate to `+http://0.0.0.0:8081/login+`:
```

//end::this-test[]

> . In *Username* type `_mule_`, in *Password* type `_mule_`, and click *Submit*. +

Reviewer: Just an option:
```suggestion
. Type `mule` for both *Username* and *Password*, and click *Submit*: +
```

//tag::also-this[]
The test recorder captures this event and stops the recording.

> . Back in Studio, click *Configure Test*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Return to Studio and click *Configure Test*:
```

+
image::stops-recording.png[]

> . Select the file name for the MUnit test suite in which you want to record your test.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Select the file name for the MUnit test suite in which you want to record your test:
```

//end::also-this[]

> . Under *Test name*, type `_DoLoginFlow-successfull_`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Under *Test name*, type `_DoLoginFlow-successfull_`.
```
"successfull" or "successful"?

Author: That's the actual name of the flow in the example. I can't change that.

> . Set the test recorder to set the recorded input of the flow, and assert that the recorded output is the expected output by the test.

Reviewer: I am having trouble parsing this step.
Does it mean "Set the test recorder to record flow input, and confirm that the results are as expected"?
You might need to pass this text by one of your peers with better technical understanding of this process than I have....

> . In the *Successful login* parse template step, select *Verify that this process was called* and set the counter to *equal to* `_1_` time.

Reviewer: What or where is the "parse template step"?
Will this wording suffice:
```suggestion
. In *Successful login*, select *Verify that this process was called* and set the counter *equal to* to `_1_` time.
```

. Click *Next* and then *Finish*.
+
A fully functional MUnit test is generated to assert that the process in your application works as expected when the login is successful.

> === Testing an Unsuccessful Login

Reviewer: Maybe the titles should be "Testing the Process for a Successful[an Unsuccessful] Login Attempt"?

include::page$test-recorder-examples.adoc[tag=this-test]

> . In *Username* type `_admin_`, in *Password* type `_admin_`, and click *Submit*. +

Reviewer: DITTO previous alternate wording:
```suggestion
. Type `admin` in both *Username* and *Password*, and click *Submit*:+
```

include::page$test-recorder-examples.adoc[tag=also-this]

> . Under *Test name*, type `_DoLoginFlow-unsuccessfull_`

Reviewer: ditto period (and spelling of "successful"?)
```suggestion
. Under *Test name*, type `_DoLoginFlow-unsuccessfull_`.
```

. Set the test recorder to set the recorded input of the flow, and assert that the recorded output is the expected output by the test.

> . In the *Unsuccessful login* parse template step, select *Verify that this process was called* and set the counter to *equal to* `_1_` time.

Reviewer: ditto questions/suggestions to these same steps previously
